All right let's spend a little bit of time checking out e Lance Lance was the web site I mentioned previously.
It's by far my favorite Web site for finding freelancers.
The quality of freelancers are much higher.
They're a little bit different than the other two.
I'm going to show you the way that they work behind the scenes as they make their money off number one
featured postings.
And number two they charge a percentage to the freelancer of about eight point seventy five percent.
Now you might think that's a lot of money.
And it kind of is especially if you're paying and a large project or you're having an ongoing relationship
with a freelancer but compared to the other ones it's actually a much lower freelancer for instance
charges 15 percent.
Lance has about 2 million freelancers.
Sounds like a lot.
It's actually less than the other two.
But in my experience they're much higher quality.
They are.
It's actually a big company surprisingly.
They make about a hundred million dollars a year.
There also we're a venture capital darling.
They have taken something like 78 million dollars in funding.
So we'll just log on and show you generally kind of what it looks like what buttons and what areas you're
going to navigate around when you go to post.
Post your first job.
So if you've played around with any of these three web sites before the Lance is by far the cleanest
in terms of the user interface they separate everything out into my Elance is where they have all of
your tasks and jobs that you've posted.
Hiring This is where you'd go if you wanted to post a job where you actually wanted to do the opposite
which is you find an individual freelancer first as opposed to posting a job and letting the freelancer
freind find you.
They have some other features on here that I'm not going to really cover but they do have quite a robust
product and has a lot of different things on here that a lot of you might have find to be pretty useful
that I don't particularly use when I use plants.
So the way that you post the job is you would just simply go to post to job this is the simplest by
far and it looks very simple similar to every other job posting site you've seen it says job but really
they mean project.
You can make it like a job because later you're going to be able to select per hour or per project and
later in the course we're going to talk in depth about whether or not you want to use per project or
per hour really depends on the project that you're doing and it depends on you specifically and how
much experience you have.
We're also going to cover how you should work on titles and descriptions.
I want to do that in a later time and really get into depth with it but we're just trying to get familiar
with how their web site looks.
So you put the title of your job description goes here.
There is a 4000 character limit the way that you get around that is you would write as much as you can
in the described section and then you would attach an attachment a Word document with the actual multi
page definition of what you're trying to build.
That's they do they do that because they don't want people to go and look at a posting and just see
an enormous amount of text.
They describe it as your overview.
You give the overview the key details kind of give some information around who you want specifically
what type of person you're looking for and who should not bed and then put the actual details in the
attachments so they can pre-qualify themselves they can read that verse description and then they can
move onto the attachment if they're interested.
Category of work you'll notice that they're all kind of the same and all of these Web sites and men
support is typically like virtual assistance.
People need to make phone calls Excel sheets things like that.
You can find graphic designers on here a graphic design firms worth specifically talking about web applications
mobile applications.
But if you have a physical hardware project and that is your startup you can go into engineering and
manufacturing too and there are some really talented people on here so early you can find in legal and
finance people who can give you for instance in legal legal advice regarding your startup regarding
what you're trying to do.
And also in finance You'd be surprised you can find some part time C-T era CFOs people who are quite
good at giving you financial advice.
Doing your books doing your cost projections.
People who can look over your pro forma your pro-forma financials performer means just in the future
that's typically a Excel calculation you'll make where you're predicting how much you think your startup
will make.
If you go the venture capital route and you're not taking this course because you want to make a lifestyle
business you will have to do something like that.
And it's a useful tool to do.
Anyway I digress.
Your typically going to be looking under I.T. and programming.
You can also use people in marketing writing translation really a very broad group of people you can
hire through this Web site.
So you going to select a subcategory you technically don't even have to.
There's another way of doing this.
And a lot of times depending on your application there might be you know I have a very specific skill
set you're looking for or you're building is very specific in general if that's the case and I usually
just typically live out leave out select subcategory and I use the request specific skills or groups
and then I'll type in something very specific.
And you'll notice like you use the word.
So this would be an example.
Maybe you want to build an e-commerce platform you don't just want someone who's skilled and just regular
e-commerce you don't you know you have your specific about what you want to use you don't want to use
Shopify or you don't want to use a like Wick's or Magento you want to use and car you can do Zenn car
and I can add that as a skill.
Now anybody who's listed Zen Cart will get that message and they all essentially be hit up and they'll
be brought to your project and it will show you don't ask them to kind of bid.
So that's a great way of honing in.
Typically then what I would end up doing is I would select skills that are complimentary to that that
you would kind of assume.
So like ph P and then I would pick say ph Peak's that's the language that Zen card is made in cake ph
is a framework.
If that's something specifically you wanted to use I try to keep it broad because typically someone
who is skilled in say ph before ph 5 ph PBB which is a forum they're also going to get messages for
PH P some kind of wasting my time by saying four or five.
Or cake ph.
The only time I would say something specific like I'd select cake is if I've already built my application
I'm looking for another freelancer and I use cake.
So I got to make sure that they're good at that.
So just say ph see if you notice on a sidebar over here this is actually kind of cool you can just use
job templates so if you're posting a job a repeat job or you're posting a job that's fairly similar
to something you posted before you can actually just pull it up on the side and it automatically drop
in all of the details so you don't have to redo that over again.
See also they do this the popular job template.
This is actually quite helpful.
Is it first time you're doing it.
So you do want to get a logo design done.
You could pick logo design and it will drop in
you so it's going to give you a separate form to fill out.
And it's been a point you kind of in the right direction like what type of Logo are you looking for.
And you can get see they've designed this for people who are making logos and it looks like they've
already selected your skill for you or your section.
The last thing is you know you'll notice there's a fixed price again hourly.
What I like about you and you won't notice the other two is when you say fix price.
You can actually say your own range and you could say decide later that's really helpful.
One of the biggest problems of the other two is that you have to determine your range beforehand.
And so what was happening is you'd say like this and you don't always know how much the application
cost.
So maybe someone will make it for $300.
What the system is going to do it's going to say no it's between 500 and 1000 You can't be below that.
L.A. does not have that problem.
So you can put a suggestion and then people will bid around that.
Here's the biggest thing I think you should pay attention to when you do.
If you do a fixed price or hourly.
I always do decide later.
Always again decide later.
And why do I do that.
Because freelancers are very much influenced by the price set.
It's an anchor point.
So if I'm building an application I think it's going to cost $4000.
And I say it's worth you know I say my budget is you know one to five thousand dollars or let's say
OK let's scratch and let's say I think my projects were $6000.
So I would say five to $10000 what will happen is you will have freelancers who would build this for
$4000 or three or $2000.
But they see that your budget is five to 10 and they're more likely going a bit higher.
That has happened pretty much every single time I've done this where I've set my own price so you are
going to influence their bids and a lot of them are just going to assume that you don't know the actual
price or they're going to assume that they're wrong.
The point is if you say decide later they're in the dark they need to come up with their own price and
that's what you want them to do any way you want them to think about it.
They want them to pitch their price to you based on the analysis they've done of what you've written.
Right.
You don't want them to be to look at other people's bids and base it off of that.
That's the lazy way.
That's the inaccurate way.
Location privacy and other options.
This is you can set it as public you can allow Google to index it.
That's definitely something you want to do unless you think you have some IP protection issues so if
you're pitching something and you don't want to get out there maybe you don't want to check that.
But you can also prefer people from a certain location.
This actually in my experience doesn't work particularly well because.
So like for instance it says select a region OK.
Like I said North America that is really imprecise North America also mind you includes Central America
Mexico.
It includes the Caribbean.
So maybe that's not something I want.
But of course I could have selected North America because I like the time zones but realistically I
selected North America because I want an American or Canadian.
That's why I really hate the way they do this because even if I say you know there's a lot of these
kind of loopholes too it seems so like Australia.
OCEANA.
I mean I want Australia right.
But that also brings up things like Papa New Guinea.
I think that also I might actually bring in like Indonesian bidders and people from like small islands
like now roo and things like that.
It's really kind of bizarre.
So I very rarely use that.
This is a problem with the plants.
You can do country.
But again this drives me nuts too because I want to say multiple countries and the other ones you can
do that.
Nice answer kind of just screwed.
I mean you have to pick one country so you'd pick the United States.
This is cool because you can actually go down and drill down to the city and state if the case is that
you feel more comfortable working with someone in your own city or within driving distance.
That's something you can do.
And so you can sit with them sometimes and actually have face to face later we're going to talk about
graphic designers and how that can be very advantageous to have someone who works in your city and someone
who you can meet for coffee to go over designs with developers.
That's not that's really not particularly the case.
Developers are not going to get as much from meeting them face to face.
And that's something that they're going to find quite annoying and it's going be kind of distracting
for them so I don't think you're going to get much out of it.
Typically when you meet with them it's kind of the idea that maybe they can showcase what they so far
with development it's just a case that if you meet them halfway through the project they can't show
you half your Web site.
That's just not how programming works.
Propose start date.
You can do it immediately.
It launches right after you launch it just gives them a quick review period and where you can set a
date in the future.
Later in the course as an extra What I want to do is we're going to go through a live demo and I'm going
to make up a web application show you had a wireframe that show you how to disk write the project description
the project specifications post it and then select someone.
But right now we're just getting you used to Elance.
And at this point in the course you should just be familiar with it and kind of.
No I want to encourage you to actually go and play with these web sites so that you get more comfortable
with them.
The other thing is I want to point out with Elance would be one when you search you have two options.
You can search for jobs or freelancers.
You can also search for a portfolio samples but that's never really seems to work out particularly well.
So one benefit is that you can say freelancers.
So let's say you wanted to build an application I can borrow something from a project I did before.
Twilley So let's say I wanted to look for freelancers that are skilled in Twilio because again maybe
I have a very specific idea of what I want to build.
I don't want to post a job I would rather go after individual freelancers and try to recruit them that
way.
So I can say Tullio
excuse my computer.
OK.
So you could see people here that advertise themselves with Twilio Tulio.
And if they're advertising themselves saying that they're good at Twilio chances are that's one of the
things this subtitle page right here.
It's limited by characters.
So you actually surf.
They're putting it up there that means there that's one of their big things that they do.
And again you can drill down.
We could say zip code.
OK.
Like I was saying you could look based on distance.
And so when I put a 9 4 1 0 9 that is the zip code for San Francisco and now I can see people who are
good at Twilio in my area to see who's a Twilio developer he's an expert Tullio developer.
This is California so he's about forty nine dollars an hour.
Sixty six seventy nine dollars an hour.
So if that's what you wanted to do you could do that.
L.A. is the place to do that if you want to look for an individual local freelancer.
I think it's a it's a good way of doing it but there are options available for you if you're trying
to do something really specific that helps.
I also suggest that when you post your job posting and you go ahead and search for freelancers any way
look for people who have very specific skills to what you're trying to build and you can individually
recruit them.
And the way that you do that is you would just say like hire me it's a button.
And what I'll do is it will prompt you to send them a message and invite them to your job posting and
that will help considerably because you post your job posting and it's a generic you know a Ph based
forum Web site.
It's only going to attract so many people because so many people there are only so many people who are
actively browsing.
But if you actually yourself go out and look for some people you want you can dramatically kind of increase
the participation in your job by individually going after people and saying I want to you know I want
to intrude.
I would invite people to my project and if you invite them directly the odds of them bidding are significantly
higher.
Probably 60 70 percent will end up actually providing a bid and then alternatively you can search for
jobs.
I like this because so let's try this again.
Say Twilley.
The reason why I would do this is and why this is helpful is because I can go and look at other people's
jobs.
And sometimes when I'm writing descriptions or running specifications I kind of get stuck.
I've written everything I can think of and I can think that could be on it but I would be curious to
see what other people are saying and so what you can do is you can search for other jobs.
I can look at say a mobile application that might include this and I can kind of search their listing
to see if there's any information around Twilio that might be useful or something they included I can
think of and that's.
This is where I've gotten a lot of my kind of a lot of the things that put it into my specifications
from because over time I've kind of just made a compounding list of things I need to remember to mention.
So here's an interesting that they listed out the Twilio SDK.
I'm not sure why you would want to do that but that's something that they out.
So maybe there is someone who does Twilio but they are not familiar with the with putting it on an application
for Android or iOS So you put it there.
That could be helpful.
So anyway that's a way that I've put together a really good specification sheet like master template.
I've just gone through and looked at other projects that are similar to what I'm posting.
I noticed that people are really good at it and so I just kind of borrowed some of the things that they
they have done Lasi manage.
This is kind of the section where you do things like payments.
You can also deal with files and you know transactions in your team I mentioned earlier oDesk is the
thing called Team view.
Elance has emerged with oDesk So they've actually added that.
So you can go to your team and you can add people to it.
Right now it's just me but I could add a new team member and what it will do is it'll ask me of all
the people in my projects who have I hired will show a list of them I can select someone add them to
my team.
What that allows me to do is it allows me to keep everyone kind of in one space but also I can ask them
to do time tracking.
That's something I've never used with Elance but it's actually a possibility if you want to do that.
That again is something that you might want to do if you're doing per hour because you make sure that
they are working for how long that they're saying that they're working with.
Do.